# Museum-Exhibit-Data-Visualization

Objective: This project established an IoT pipeline at the Museum of Science in Boston that displayed visitor-exhibit data back at the visitors, promoting data literacy and encouraging iteration in engineering design challenges, where I spent a great deal of time. I worked directly with visitors as they built and tested their engineering designs while working towards a measured goal (bounce height on a trampoline, race time for a bobsled, etc). In my interactions with visitors, I found a way to improve their iteration while further incorporating math into their design process. I created a data visual that presents each  visitor’s test not just as a single measurement, but as a data point in the set of all other visitor tests that had been collected that day and all time.

Description: After engaging in thorough user -research, I designed the technology pipeline required to collect, visualize, and present visitor data from these engineering challenges.  In order to avoid removing the exhibit from the museum floor, I pulled visitor tests from the current system over I2C  to a microcontroller I set up with an ESP32 WiFi module. The data was sent from my microcontroller to a server that I set up with our IT department. I designed a MATLAB web app to run on the museum floor that pulled data from the server and displayed it as an interactive histogram. This app allowed visitors to engage with the data themselves, and also served as a tool for floor educators to use as well.
